# Guide for porting Racon to DPC++ using DPCT

## Run DPCT on Racon
One can use the following script to port Racon to DPC++ using DPCT.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/lbcb-sci/racon.git
mkdir racon/build && cd racon/build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -Dracon_enable_cuda=ON -Dracon_build_test=ON ..
# Resolve bugs that blocks building
sed -i '3475 s/operator""_format/operator_format/' _deps/genomeworks-src/3rdparty/spdlog/include/spdlog/fmt/bundled/format.h
source /opt/intel/oneapi/setvars.sh
intercept-build make
# Resolve bugs that blocks building
sed -i '46 s/min(t1, min(t2, t3))/t1<(t2<t3?t2:t3)?t1:(t2<t3?t2:t3)/' _deps/genomeworks-src/common/base/include/claraparabricks/genomeworks/utils/mathutils.hpp

# run DPCT or DPCT-Companion
dpct -p=. --in-root=.. --out-root=./dpcpp --extra-arg="-D__CUDA_ARCH__=750" --extra-arg="-I/usr/lib/llvm-10/include/openmp" --extra-arg="-DTHRUST_IGNORE_CUB_VERSION_CHECK=1" &> racon_dpct.log
```

## Resolving warnings
DPCT throws warnings during porting. We can use [DPCT-Companion](https://github.com/DPCT-Companion/DPCT-Companion) to resolve some warnings automatically. For the rest of the warnings, please follow the [official diagnostics reference](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/intel-dpcpp-compatibility-tool-user-guide/top/diagnostics-reference.html).


## This repository
This repository contains
- The original Racon
- Partially ported Racon generated by DPCT: in `./build/dpcpp`
- Output of DPCT-Companion: in `./migrated_old`
- Manually fixed version of Racon: in `./migrated`

The manually fixed version fixed all the warnings and resolved **some** bugs of DPCT.

### Known bugs of DPCT
We failed to form minimal reproducible examples for these bugs. Still, we will introduce the bugs here for further developers.

- DPCT failed to detect some files as CUDA files, especially those using thrust. For example, `build/_deps/genomeworks-src/common/base/include/claraparabricks/genomeworks/utils/pinned_host_vector.hpp` was not correctly detected, since DPCT left it almost unchanged in `migrated_old/build/_deps/genomeworks-src/common/base/include/claraparabricks/genomeworks/utils/pinned_host_vector.hpp`.

- DPCT fails to handle the conversion from CUDA `min()`/`max()` to `sycl::min()`/`sycl::max()` sometimes. Please check `migrated/build/_deps/genomeworks-src/cudapoa/src/cudapoa_nw.dp.hpp` and `migrated_old/build/_deps/genomeworks-src/cudapoa/src/cudapoa_nw.dp.hpp` for examples. The type conversion applied by DPCT when using these functions were erroneous.

- DPCT sometimes fails to change the name of the header file included in other files, especially when the header file itself does not contain any CUDA code (but wiith the `.cuh` extension). Please check `migrated/build/_deps/genomeworks-src/common/base/include/claraparabricks/genomeworks/utils/allocator.hpp` and `migrated_old/build/_deps/genomeworks-src/common/base/include/claraparabricks/genomeworks/utils/allocator.hpp` for an example.

## Building and running DPC++ Racon
We wrote a Makefile for the DPC++ Racon in `migrated/build/Makefile`. One can make the DPC++ Racon with the `make` command. However, when we run the migrated version, every unit tests related to GPU activities failed. We currently do not have the time (and knowledge) to go deep into the problem。 The reason for the failure is likely to be within the kernel code, i.e., `migrated/build/_deps/genomeworks-src/cudapoa/src/cudapoa_kernels.dp.hpp` based on our initial judgement. 


## Contact Info

Please contact us for any further questions regarding our work.

Tianchen Zhang tianchen.zhang.18@ucl.ac.uk

Yuyi Liang ucabiap@ucl.ac.uk

Yuchen Yang ucabanr@ucl.ac.uk

Choi Lam Wong choi.wong.18@ucl.ac.uk

Yuning Chen yuning.chen.21@ucl.ac.uk

Sundram Goyal sundram.goyal.21@ucl.ac.uk